>> Scott Moss: For this part, I'm just
gonna kind of just talk about what
is GraphQL, I also talk about
this in the client side course.
So if you watch that,
it's gonna be kind of a recap for you.
But basically, GraphQL, you can read
the definition here of what it is.
The way I describe GraphQL
is basically two parts.
There is a query language,
that's the QL part in graph.
That query language is used to
traverse any type of data source or
many data sources in
a very descriptive way.
So that query language
allows you to literally say,
this is the shape of data that I want from
the available data that I know about.
Make sure you return the data in this
exact shape, so that's the query language.
The other side of it is what we're making
today is gonna be the part that satisfies
that query language,
that's gonna be the server component.
So that server, its job is to
architecture some way in which
a client can query the given
schema in any direction,
any format, any shape that they want.
So there can be a pretty close to
infinite amount of possibilities in
which someone can query a GraphQL schema
depending on how big the schema is.
So the server's job is to make sure that
all those possibilities can be fulfilled,
which sounds quite difficult if you think
about it from a perspective of making
one rest route for
one resource plus CRUD action.
That sounds like you'd be making a lot of
routes and verbs, and things like that,
but it's not architecture like
that as you'll soon find out.
So that's kind of how I describe GraphQL,
and then just to tie it all together,
there's a lot of type safety.
So having that schema that tells the
client what resources it can access, and
then having the back
end fulfill that query,
there's type safety involved to ensure
that the client can only ask for
things in a certain type in
which the schema created.
And if that contract is violated,
the server will automatically error out,
so if you don't satisfy the right
type on the back end, if you ask for
different things on the front end,
you're gonna get errors.
So that's not something unique to servers,
but
typically that's something
you have to build yourself.
Every company I've ever worked at, where
we were not using something like GraphQL,
part of the stack was for
sure validating input from a client.
It's like, okay, here's the input,
either we validate it from scratch or
we have like, I've used things
like runtime schemas like ZOD or
things like that that will
validate some user input.
Cuz you don't wanna trust a client,
before we even interact with the database,
which has another layer of
validation with its own schema.
So there's a lot of valid, and
then on the front end for a form,
you might have front end form validation.
So there's three layers of validation you
might have when it comes to accepting
user input.
GraphQL takes care of the validating
from the client to the back end,
that's done for free given a schema,
just like a database schema,
if you try to violate that,
the database should error out as well.
If you have some primary key or
some foreign key constraints on the SQL
database, and you try to violate that
on insert, then yeah, you're gonna have
errors thrown from the database for
free, you don't have to write that code.
You basically get that same experience but
on the API layer with GraphQL,
so it's quite effective
as you'll soon find out.
So created by Facebook, long time ago.
And then since then,
it's evolved into, I would say,
it's pretty much a standard at this
point when comparing it to other types
of things out there like GRPC,
obviously REST.
There's now TRPC,
it's definitely up there.
It's definitely in the conversation when
it comes to what API should be built for
something new.
GraphQL is something that we thought about
a lot at the company that I'm building and
how we might use it because
of just how useful it can be.
But now it's maintained
by a large community.
There are companies built on
creating services, and plugins, and
all different types of product for
GraphQL developers, so
when you see that, you know it's
always a massive opportunity.
But yeah, I'm pretty impressed
with what GraphQL has done and
how far along it's come.
So yeah, why would you use something
like GraphQL over something like REST?
I mean, we're gonna talk
about that the entire course.
But I would say, for me, especially on
the back end, the biggest reason is that,
well, the back end is so
difficult the than the client side.
But I'd say some of the biggest benefits
on the back end of why you would use
GraphQL is that, you can tie into
many different data sources,
that aren't just like one database.
So if you have microservice,
if you integrate with Stripe,
you integrate with this third party thing,
you have different databases for whatever.
Yeah, obviously, you would write a bunch
of business logic to tie all that stuff in
and then surface that through
whatever clients you want.
But GraphQL just kind of makes that easy,
because it's abstracted away from
the data sources, but it creates a unified
schema in which any client can query.
So if you have a mobile app
that needs to get data,
as far as you wanna get the user, you also
wanna get the user subscription status,
which comes from Stripe.
You also wanna get something about the
user that comes from their Google profile.
Yes, you can curry all that individually,
make a route for it, and
then send it back to the client.
But you can also have GraphQL resolve
those pieces of data individually and
put them together for you in one
single place, and one object type, and
the client just gets that for free,
and they don't even know about it.
So, it's quite impressive when
you can do things like that.
I think it also just, is a great
way to organize an API as you soon
find out that it's a framework really.
I think for the most part, when it
comes to developing APIs, yeah, we have
things like Express and things like that,
but you can still get pretty wild,
I've never seen two express
servers that look the same.
Even though they all use Express,
they all look way different.
Whereas, with GraphQL, it's like React,
it's pretty much all gonna look the same,
cuz if you don't satisfy
the constraints of the framework,
it won't let it start as
you'll find out today.
You really have to be pretty literal with
the things that you make because it's so
type heavy that it won't even start, so
it gives you a little bit of security.
It also creates standardization around
GraphQL API, so you can feel confident
that you can go work on another one,
even in another language.
I've worked on GraphQL APIs and
languages like Phoenix,
I don't even know those languages,
but yeah, I was able to work with
GraphQL because it's abstracted so
high from it that it doesn't matter.
Some of the bigger differences
between GraphQL and REST, and
we'll be talking about this throughout
the course as well as we continue to go.
But some of the bigger ones are, with
REST there's a combination of a route and
a verb for a resource.
So if you wanna do CRUD,
you might have a postrequestto/user.
You wanna get one user,
it might be a getrequestto/user/userid,
you wanna update one to put or
a patch to user/id, right?
So you're having all these routes for
all these different resources,
with all these different actions,
not with GraphQL.
GraphQL, there's just one URL,
it's typically /GraphQL, and
it's always pretty much
gonna be a POST request.
And that's it,
you only have one route, right?
The actual part where you are asking for
the information is part of the payload.
Payload that you send up is what
the server needs to figure out how to
resolve your query,
it's not part of the URL.
So that's the biggest difference REST uses
the URL to determine what it is you're
trying to access, whereas GraphQL
uses the body of the POST request to
figure out what it is that you
want after it validates it.
So, that's why you only need one URL.